---
title: 'Adding an Empty State Component for Portfolio, Dealflow, and Reminders'
created: '2024-10-07'
tags: ['React', 'UI/UX', 'Foundamental']
description:
  'Adding an Empty State Component for Portfolio, Dealflow, and Reminders'
project: loura-ui
---

In this post, I’ll discuss the recent changes I made to implement an empty state
component for the Portfolio, Dealflow, and Reminders pages in our application.
The goal was to enhance user experience by providing clear feedback when there
are no items to display. Here’s a detailed look at what I did, the reasoning
behind my approach, and the challenges I faced.

## Overview of Changes

The main change was the addition of an empty state component that displays a
message and an icon when there are no items present in the Portfolio, Dealflow,
or Reminders sections. This helps users understand that the absence of items is
intentional and not a bug.

### Implementing the Empty State in Dealflow

In the `DealflowForTeam` component, I replaced the previous empty state text
with a more visually appealing empty state component. Here’s the relevant code
snippet:

```typescript
 {hasNoResult ? (

<EmptyTextDiv>

<IconWrapper>

<StyledArrowIcon />

</IconWrapper>

<EmptyText> {"No companies found after applying your filters."}</EmptyText>

</EmptyTextDiv>

) : (

<NavigableList navKey="DealflowList" columnSizes={["20%", "40%", "30%", "10%"]}>

<DealFlowList
```

By using `EmptyTextDiv`, `IconWrapper`, and `StyledArrowIcon`, I created a more
engaging user interface. The icon adds a visual element that draws attention,
while the text clearly communicates the situation to the user. This approach not
only improves aesthetics but also enhances usability by providing context.

### Updating Styles for the Empty State

To support the new empty state component, I added several styled components in
`styles.ts`. Here’s a brief overview of what I included:

```typescript
export const EmptyTextDiv = styled("div") display: flex; flex-direction: column; justify-content: center; align-items: center; height: 100%; width: 100%; gap: 30px; padding-bottom: 100px;;

export const EmptyText = styled(Typography) color: ${newColorOptions.misc.text.chatInfo}; font-family: ${AEONIK_NAME}, ${AEONIK_FALLBACK}; font-size: 18px; line-height: 28px; text-align: center; font-weight: 500;;

export const IconWrapper = styled("div") position: relative; height: 55px; width: 55px; border-radius: 32px; background-color: ${newColorOptions.misc.inboxIconBackground};;
```

These styles ensure that the empty state component is visually appealing and
consistent with the overall design of the application. The use of flexbox allows
for easy centering of the content, making it adaptable to different screen
sizes.

## Why This Approach?

The primary goal was to improve user experience by providing clear feedback when
there are no items to display. Users often feel confused or frustrated when they
see an empty page without any context. By implementing an empty state component,
I aimed to reduce confusion and enhance the overall usability of the
application.

## Challenges Faced

One challenge was ensuring that the new empty state component integrated
seamlessly with existing components. I had to be careful to maintain the overall
layout and design while introducing new elements. Additionally, testing the new
component across different scenarios took time to ensure it displayed correctly
under various conditions.

## Conclusion

Overall, I’m pleased with the addition of the empty state component. It enhances
the user experience by providing clear feedback and improving the visual appeal
of the application. As always, I welcome any feedback or suggestions from the
team. If you have thoughts or ideas, feel free to reach out. Happy coding!
