---
title: Implementing the New Login Page as a Storybook Component
created: '2024-10-07'
tags:
  - React
  - UI/UX
  - Foundamental
  - storybook
  - figma
status:
  - Draft
description: 'Implementing the New Login Page as a Storybook Component'
project: loura-ui
---

In this post, I’ll discuss the recent changes made to implement a new login page
for our application, specifically focusing on creating a Storybook component for
it. The goal was to create a user-friendly interface that facilitates easy
access for users while ensuring security and responsiveness. Additionally, using
Storybook allows us to develop and showcase UI components in isolation, making
it easier to test and iterate on designs.

## What is Storybook?

[Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) is an open-source tool for developing UI
components in isolation for React, Vue, Angular, and other frameworks. It allows
developers to create components independently, document them, and visualize
different states of each component. This is particularly useful for building
complex UIs, as it helps ensure that components are reusable and maintainable.

For more information on how to get started with Storybook, you can refer to the
official documentation:

- [Storybook Documentation](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/get-started/introduction)
- [Storybook for React](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/get-started/introduction)

## Design Considerations

### Simplicity and Clarity

The design of the new login page was centered around simplicity and clarity. A
clean layout with well-defined input fields and buttons minimizes user friction
during the login process. The choice to use Material-UI components allowed for a
responsive design that adapts to various screen sizes, ensuring accessibility
for all users.

The login form includes fields for email and password, along with a submit
button. Here’s a simplified version of the form:

```tsx
const LoginForm = () => {
	const handleSubmit = event => {
		event.preventDefault()

		// Handle login logic
	}

	return (
		<form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
			<input type='email' placeholder='Email' required />

			<input type='password' placeholder='Password' required />

			<button type='submit'>Login</button>
		</form>
	)
}
```

This clean layout not only enhances usability but also aligns with our branding,
creating a cohesive experience for users.

### User Feedback Mechanisms

Incorporating user feedback mechanisms was a key aspect of the design. I
implemented error handling to provide users with clear messages if their login
attempts failed. This feedback is essential for guiding users through the
authentication process and reducing frustration.

For instance, if a user enters incorrect credentials, a clear error message
appears:

```tsx
if (loginError) {
	return <p className='error-message'>Invalid credentials, please try again.</p>
}
```

This immediate feedback helps users understand what went wrong and encourages
them to try again, improving overall user satisfaction.

### Visual Appeal and Branding

The visual appeal of the login page was enhanced through thoughtful use of color
and typography. By aligning the design with the overall branding of the
application, I aimed to create a cohesive experience that resonates with users.
The use of styled components allowed for easy customization while maintaining
consistency across the application.

For example, I used a consistent color scheme that reflects our brand identity,
ensuring that the login page feels like a natural extension of the application.
The logo is prominently displayed at the top of the form, reinforcing brand
recognition.

### Security Considerations

Security is paramount in any login interface. I implemented measures such as
input validation and secure password handling to protect user data.
Additionally, I ensured that the application adheres to best practices for
authentication, including the use of HTTPS and secure cookie management.

## Creating the Storybook Component

To facilitate the development and testing of the login page, I created a
Storybook component. This allows us to visualize the login form in different
states, such as loading, error, and success. Here’s how I set up the Storybook
for the login component:

1. **Install Storybook**: If you haven't already, you can set up Storybook in
   your project using the following command:

   ```bash
   npx sb init
   ```

2. **Create the Story**: I created a new file for the login component story,
   which showcases different states of the login form.

```tsx
// src/stories/Login.stories.js

import React from 'react'

import { LoginForm } from '../components/LoginForm'

export default {
	title: 'Login/LoginForm',

	component: LoginForm,
}

const Template = args => <LoginForm {...args} />

export const Default = Template.bind({})

Default.args = {
	// Default props for the login form
}

export const ErrorState = Template.bind({})

ErrorState.args = {
	loginError: true,
}
```

This setup allows us to visualize how the login form behaves under different
conditions, making it easier to identify issues and iterate on the design.

## User Testing and Iteration

After implementing the new login page and creating the Storybook component, I
conducted user testing sessions to gather feedback on its usability. Users found
the new design to be intuitive and appreciated the clear error messages.
However, some users suggested adding a "Remember Me" checkbox to streamline the
login process for returning users.

In response to this feedback, I plan to implement the "Remember Me" feature,
which will allow users to stay logged in on their devices. This enhancement will
further improve the user experience by reducing the number of steps required to
access the application.

## Conclusion

Overall, I’m pleased with the implementation of the new login page as a
Storybook component. It enhances the user experience by providing a clear and
organized interface for authentication while allowing for easy testing and
iteration. By focusing on simplicity, user feedback, and visual appeal, I
believe this new design will significantly improve user satisfaction. I welcome
any feedback or suggestions from the team. If you have thoughts or ideas, feel
free to reach out. Happy coding!D
